Hey! Dai! Popp!
I'm coming with you!
Maam: Alright, you two.
If you're both disciples
of Avan, then so am I.
That makes me your senior.
So if he's gone...
I'm going to carry on
his will and fight, too.
Maam?
So she knows. Did you...
You can tell me on the
walk to Romos Castle, okay?
I get the feeling
she's gonna boss us around?
Relax. That means
she's reliable.
Dai: C'mon buddy!
Gomechan: [happy chirp]
There it is.
Maam: Just like I said.
Romos Castle; here we come!
[terrified yell]
Guard: Go home.
The king's already gone
to sleep for the night.
Come back and try
again tomorrow.
Come on! Don't be like that.
We've traveled
so far to get here.
I'm sorry, but the security
around the whole castle
has been increased
due to all these monster
attacks we've been having.
There's no way we can allow
just anyone to waltz
in here after dark.
Listen, I get it, but we happen
to know the king personally.
You don't want to
get in trouble, do you?
Keep up with the lies
and I'll throw you in prison.
Now get lost!
Ah, damnit.
I was so sure we'd get
some castle hospitality.
Whatever. Could be worse.
Why don't we just
spend tonight at an inn.
Aha!
Maam: There's one.
Good evening.
It's fairly late for you
folks to be out, isn't it?
Uh, sir?
The three of us would
like to spend the night.
It's just you three?
Aren't there any
adults with you?
Popp: Mister,
we may not look it,
but we're warriors
fighting the Dark Army.
Oh.
Not to brag, but you could
even say we're a Hero's party.
Why, that's a coincidence.
Innkeeper: It just so happens
there's another
Hero's party staying here.
What an honor.
Wow! Another Hero? Really?!
There.
Innkeeper:
That's their room.
Leave them be, Dai.
Save it for tomorrow!
Oh, come on.
I just want to say hello.
Dai: Hero?
Mister Hero!
Deroline: What? It's late.
I know, but I really
wanted to meet you!
Deroline: Go home.
We're exhausted from
battling monsters all day.
Y'know... Hero stuff.
Give us a break, huh?
Can't I even talk to
you for a little bit?
Deroline: No! Come back tomorrow
and I'll sign an autograph.
Zulbon: What's going on?
Who is that?
Deroline: I dunno,
some annoying brat.
I've heard that
voice before...
Mister Hero?
Hey, Mister Hero!
Enough! Buzz off!
It's you! The fake Hero!
Th-Th-The monster boy?
Huh? The what?
[shocked yells]
What are you doing
in the Romos Kingdom?
What's going on, Dai?!
These guys are villains
pretending to be Heroes!
Dai: They kidnapped Gomechan,
and I've seen them do all
sorts of other bad stuff.
Hold on - that's all in
the past. We've changed!
That's right.
We've atoned for our sins
and now we're all putting in
the work to become true Heroes.
Oh yeah? Working by
doing what, exactly?
We defeat weaker monsters,
and sometimes people give
us rewards in exchange.
And open leftover
treasure chests
at castles the
Dark Army's cleared out.
When we're not doing that,
coaching the king's
soldiers in magic
and fighting skills
pays pretty well, too!
That's right!
[proud laughter]
Dai: Seriously?
That's basically the same kind
of stuff you guys used to do.
You said it, Dai.
How could anyone who only
fights the weaker monsters
call themselves a Hero?
You're one to talk,
aren't you?
So... Why don't we let
bygones be bygones, huh?
[laughing]
Crocodine [thought]: From
here on, I must be ruthless.
The pride and honor of
a warrior's title
is meaningless
without victory.
I will use whatever
method it takes...
And crush him.
[roaring]
[charging roars]
Come out and face me, Dai!
Crocodine: Otherwise,
the Romos Kingdom falls today!
Hey, that voice...
[roaring]
Popp: A massive
army of monsters?!
This has got to be
Crocodine's Furfang Legion.
They're launching
an all-out attack now?
Hey! What's with
all the noise?!
It's the Dark Army's
Furfang Legion!
[whimpers]
The Furfang Legion?
No one has ever seen an army of
monsters that big and ferocious!
[noticing gasp]
Maam: There's Crocodine!
Go forth! Destroy Romos Castle!
It's Crocodine.
What in the world
is that thing?
They're headed
for the castle.
Dai - wait!
Maam: Dai!
Your Majesty!
What is it?
Soldier: Not good.
The enemy army
is overwhelming us.
We can't fend them
off much longer!
Your Majesty; our only
option is to escape.
I will not abandon
my people and flee.
A king's desertion
is equal to defeat.
I may be old and weak,
but I am not about
to turn tail and run.
King Romos: We must fight!
We must hold out
hope until the end.
The gods offer no miracles
to those who retreat.
King Romos: Who goes there?
Crocodine: I am Commander of the
Dark Army's Furfang Legion...
I am Crocodine!
Cursed creature!
Crocodine: King Romos.
I have no interest in
your pathetic little life.
But you are the perfect bait
with which to lure
out my target.
We have to go after Dai
- like, right now.
But - why?!
It's safe here!
Didn't you see
Crocodine's face?!
He wants revenge on Dai.
That must be why he's here.
We have to help fight, okay?
Great. Count us out.
Indeed.
What's the point in fighting
someone you know you can't beat?
That's a fool's errand.
Zulbon: There's
no greater treasure
than one's own life,
after all.
[nervous chuckle]
You bet. I can
agree with that.
Please, stop goofing
around! We gotta go!
But what'll I do?
Crocodine's really powerful.
Popp: It'll be like
just going to die, you know?
That is exactly why
we have to help!
Dai might not make it.
Maam: We all need
to work together.
Just don't worry about it.
Trust me on this.
Dai is super
strong in a pinch.
Popp: He won't lose.
Popp...
C'mon. What's with you?
Aren't you supposed
to be his friend?
His companion?
Don't you care about him?!
Lay off me!
You know what?
I never even wanted to
go up against the Dark Army
in the first place!
I didn't ask for this
dumb fight, alright?!
Popp: I mean, I know Dai and
I trained together and all.
But don't you see?
He's the reason
they keep coming, Maam.
Popp: I don't want to end
up dead because of him.
[pained grunt]
Ow-ow-ouch. Why, you-
Maam: Popp...
Did you...
Did you learn nothing
from our Master Avan?
Maam: I thought you and Dai
were fighting to avenge him.
Aren't you one
of his students?
Because I am. That's why
I followed you two.
And that's why we're here!
Maam, I, uh...
You disgust me!
[chirping]
[fighting grunts]
[roaring]
Dai: Stop!
I'm the one you want.
That boy... It can't be...
Crocodine: There you are,
Dai. I've been waiting.
King Romos [thought]:
Is that really Dai?
He's grown up so much!
The gods have granted me a
miracle in the nick of time!
Zaboera: [cackling]
Now fight to your heart's
content, Crocodine!
With that ace up your sleeve,
the boy could never
possibly defeat us.
What's wrong?
Fight me! Otherwise...
Okay.
[battle cry]
Frizz!
A spell?
Crocodine [thought]:
In our last battle,
Dai could only use a sword.
How did he master
a Frizz spell
in only a few days?
Crocodine [thought]: They say
that it only takes three days
for a warrior to evolve,
and he actually did it.
If he continues to grow,
his power could become
the greatest threat the
Dark Army has ever faced.
Maam: Dai!
Soldier: Your Majesty!
Maam, the king
needs a Midheal.
Yeah - you got it!
[cackling]
That's it, Crocodine...
Zaboera: Throw away your
pitiful pride and use it!
Zaboera's soldier:
Master Zaboera,
what sort of secret weapon
is inside that box?
Zaboera: It contains that
boy's greatest weakness.
It looks like you have
left me no choice...
Crocodine: But to use this!
That's a Magic Cylinder!
Magic Cylinder?
Dai: It can hold
living creatures.
You can bring them
in or out with a spell!
Right. It's sort of
like the Magic Bullets
that Master Avan
used to make?
Yeah! He must contain some
sort of backup in there.
I'm sure of it!
Go! Gush!
Grampa Brass?!
Zaboera: Brass may be
Dai's adoptive parent,
but he's still
a Lump Shaman.
If he leaves his island
and falls under the
Dark King's Magic Power,
then he becomes a vanguard
for the Dark Army.
Destroy him.
Now, Lump Shaman Brass!
But, how?
That monster!
Dai: Hold on! Wait!
You can't. That's my Grampa!
What are you talking about?!
He raised me after I washed
up on Dermline Island!
Dai: He's not a bad monster!
Please, guys - just wait!
Zaboera: Dai cannot harm
his adoptive parent.
There's no one better to use
against that would-be Hero.
[devious chuckle]
Fuddle!
Hey! Are you okay?
[terrified yelp]
What's going on?!
He had Fuddle cast on him.
He's confused.
Hold him down!
Yes, sir!
[evil chuckle]
Let go! Let go!
Grampa, stop it!
Why are you doing this?
What's wrong?
Grampa! You've gotta wake up.
Don't you recognize me?!
[growling]
[painted grunt]
[happy chuckle]
Brass: Try again!
Grampa...
Brass: D-Dai...
Grampa!
Brass: Frizzle!
[pained cry]
Heyedra: Lord Hadlar...
What now?
Heyedra: I have received
word from my master,
Mystic Bishop Zaboera.
He is working with
Commander Crocodine
of the Furfang Legion
to battle Dai.
He says victory is at hand.
Understood. Leave me.
Heyedra: Yes, my lord.
Zaboera working
with Crocodine?
Hadlar [thought]:
Curse that wretched Dai.
He's already grown so strong
that even Crocodine
can't handle him alone.
But if Zaboera is
lending his wisdom,
then I suppose
there's no reason to worry.
He does have the most
cruel and cunning mind
out of any of the Dark
Army's Legion Commanders.
Only a fool would
underestimate him.
[delighted chuckle]
[evil chuckle]
G-Grampa...
King Romos: You'd better
help Dai, young lady.
I am fine. Don't worry.
This is the end!
No!
It's you again.
Maam: I've got a Frizzle
of my own for you!
Dai: No - don't!
But, I...
Maam, you might hit Grampa!
I'm trying to save you, Dai!
Dai: Please...
He's the only real
family I've got.
Dai: He's...
He's my Grampa!
Now finish him, Brass.
Crocodine! How can you
call yourself a warrior?
Maam: After all
that talk about pride,
I really thought that you'd
be more honorable than this!
You think you're the
Beast King? What a joke.
Soldier: That's right.
You're seriously using a
hostage against a little boy?
You're a disgrace
of a warrior.
You should be ashamed!
That's right.
Go home!
You're no warrior!
That's enough!
A warrior without achievement
is like a beast with no teeth!
Your words are meaningless...
I've already
abandoned my pride!
[cackling]
Perfect. He said it! Oh,
how very well put, Crocodine.
With that attitude
and my influence,
your victory is assured.
Zaboera's soldier:
Impressive, Master Zaboera.
Turning a Legion
Commander into a pawn.
Now if Crocodine wins, your
standing is sure to rise
with Lord Hadlar
and the Dark King.
Zaboera: Of course he'll win.
With the way I
set all of this up,
even a muscle-brained buffoon
like Crocodine couldn't lose.
It will all be
finished soon enough.
Maam: We need a new plan!
Dai: The Magic Cylinder.
Huh?
Dai: If we had that, we could
seal Grampa back inside.
Maam - you try
to keep him busy,
and then I'll
go for the Cylinder.
You got it.
Frizzle!
[wincing]
Crocodine: Ah, too bad.
A good plan, boy.
It's a shame your
speed was halved
by the damage you
took from that Frizzle.
I-I won't quit!
Crocodine: It's all over, Dai!
Hang on!
You won't suffer for long.
In fact, I'll end it now...
And I'll show you
my most powerful attack!
[snarling]
[roaring]
Maam [thought]: He's
gathering all of his energy-
all of his aura -
into his right arm!
What's he doing?
Crocodine:
Beast King Anguish Blast!
Both: [screaming]
Oh no!
Victory!
Narrator: With Dai overwhelmed
by Crocodine's incredible power,
and Maam immobilized by
the Mystic Bishop Zaboera...
The final blow bears
down upon our heroes.
Meanwhile, Popp's mind
is far from the battlefield,
but with both of
his friends in peril,
will he rise to the occasion?
Find out next time on
Dragon Quest:
The Adventure of Dai,
"A Single Shard of Courage."